00:00	It? No, this is all just experiential knowledge. There we go. Digi. No, not right now.              
     	                                                                                                    
00:20	We boil in a second. It okay mentally. Go back to April 2324, 25.                                   
     	                                                                                                    
00:42	You're just digging out what breastfeeding is, what it's like? What surprised you most? How that    
     	hurt? Yeah. That caught you completely off guard? Yes. It shouldn't have hurt as bad as it did, but 
     	I think everybody, from just what I've heard from friends and stuff, it hurts a little bit for      
     	everybody at first because it's just so sensitive an area.                                          
     	                                                                                                    
01:20	Yeah. Especially by if I was bleeding. That's not normal.                                           
     	                                                                                                    
01:25	Yeah. Then when did you figure it out? Figure it out? You didn't get nipple shields for like, two   
     	weeks, so you're just dealing with the pain for two weeks. It was miserable.                        
     	                                                                                                    
01:39	Remember I had those? I used the cream constantly in between the cooling cooling thing, because I   
     	couldn't even wear shirts. It hurts too bad to even put shirts on it. I had to put the cooling pads 
     	on and then I tried to pump, remember? Because to let it heal, even.                                
     	                                                                                                    
01:59	That wasn't doing it. That still hurt. The shields came.                                            
     	                                                                                                    
02:09	Didn't he get shields at the hospital? They had cooling pads. They gave me cooling pads. The        
     	lactation consultant came the week after.                                                           
     	                                                                                                    
02:28	It was a Thursday. Can't remember if it was the Thursday we came home or the next week. I think it  
     	was the next week.                                                                                  
     	                                                                                                    
02:36	Yeah. It sounds right, because I was at the office. Yeah.                                           
     	                                                                                                    
02:41	So Thursday, I think that was the same day that I got the shields in the mail and tried them. And   
     	she told me that was a good idea. It was.                                                           
     	                                                                                                    
02:53	It's because of what he had. Tongue tie. He doesn't have tongue tie, but basically his frontulum was
     	just a little bit tight.                                                                            
     	                                                                                                    
03:01	What's that mean? Usually a tongue tie means so tight that they can't lift their tongue up very hot.
     	Yeah. So they can't suck properly.                                                                  
     	                                                                                                    
03:18	What's his problem? So tongue ties, they actually have to go they have to get a procedure. Right, I 
     	know, but what's his problem? They said his was just a little bit tight. They said it wasn't bad    
     	enough to be considered a tongue tie.                                                               
     	                                                                                                    
03:26	They said it was tight. And I think he was just a bigger sucker. I think he was so hungry.          
     	                                                                                                    
03:38	He doesn't suck that hard now at all. Before, it was like, yeah. He's like, I'm not wasting any     
     	time, I'm going to be a beast.                                                                      
     	                                                                                                    
03:51	But now he has it correctly. I think the shields actually taught him how to do it correctly because 
     	I could see his latch with the shield. What do you wish you knew before breast? About before his    
     	birth, about breastfeeding one, the pain and about the cooling pad and oh, that my milk wouldn't    
     	come in for a few days and that he would not be satisfied until it did.                             
     	                                                                                                    
04:41	Remember? Yeah. And the pedrician told me that two days later because he was just screaming. He     
     	lost, like, a pound in a couple of days just because he was hungry.                                 
     	                                                                                                    
04:53	They usually lose weight, but he lost a lot, and I was freaking out, and he was just so angry. And  
     	remember when I was pumping, I was only getting, like, this much because it's colostrum. Right.     
     	                                                                                                    
05:04	So technically has everything that he needs, but his belly doesn't know that, so he still thinks    
     	he's hungry. Wish somebody told me that. Would you have done anything beforehand regarding all those
     	things had you known that? No.                                                                      
     	                                                                                                    
05:20	You maybe been stocked up on cooling? Yeah, but I mean, as far as the it would have been good to    
     	know that it's like the first few days are going to be a bit of a not every baby's like that. Some  
     	babies have to wake up to eat, and that's just how they are. But Teddy was not really okay.         
     	                                                                                                    
05:41	And then when milk did come in, that was an experience also. Like, overnight, they just got hard as 
     	rock. Yeah.                                                                                         
     	                                                                                                    
05:51	And super painful. Are there any other problems you had you didn't expect? I mean, I knew about     
     	cluster feeding, but I didn't know how tiring it would be because he caught him to eat constantly.  
     	If I asked you how long would his feedings be, what would you have said beforehand? Well, oh, wait, 
     	what? Before he was born, if I asked, like, what do you think is the average feeding time? Nice.    
     	                                                                                                    
06:41	Good job, honey. Nice work, Tedman. Yeah.                                                           
     	                                                                                                    
06:46	Stressed. Did you see his face? No. He's like, okay, so you thought 1015 minutes in average feeding.
     	                                                                                                    
06:59	That is what the lactation consultant said, too, but yours were an hour. That's also because I had a
     	shield. The shield makes it slower.                                                                 
     	                                                                                                    
07:07	Is that the primary reason? Yeah. So that's the real drawback of the shield. Yeah.                  
     	                                                                                                    
07:15	Some people use the shield for that purpose because some people some people milk slow is so fast,   
     	they need a barrier. They need to slow down because the babies can't handle it until they get good  
     	at it. Wow.                                                                                         
     	                                                                                                    
07:47	What did so panicked? He looked at me and got all red face, like, what did you learn by experience? 
     	The one thing that I loved that I didn't know, really, is the position laying on your side position 
     	to feed. So I use it every morning now. When did you learn that? I learned about it in my class.    
     	                                                                                                    
08:22	I never tell my patients to do it, though, because when you only have ten minutes to teach them     
     	everything about breastfeeding right. You don't worry about that. Are you trying to get them to     
     	latch it? All right.                                                                                
     	                                                                                                    
08:39	What was what is the experience of breastfeeding now? What's something you've learned experientially
     	that you didn't learn through formal training? Um, what's something you just you learned as a mom   
     	about breastfeeding? One of the big things that they that this is kind of common. People would love 
     	to see this, but when you're in the hospital? I would teach my patients the rule. You're supposed to
     	tell them to feed the baby every two to 3 hours.                                                    
     	                                                                                                    
09:33	You just have to read the baby's cues, and they're probably going to want to feed a lot more than   
     	that at the beginning. But if your baby's one of those sleepers like Emily mom had to wake her up to
     	eat all the time. Yeah, you're supposed to should read the cues instead of just good one.           
     	                                                                                                    
10:02	Mess, man, that's just disgusting. Can you get me something? Should have known better. Just like a  
     	Milky Way galaxy just emanated from your mouth.                                                     
     	                                                                                                    
10:25	I can't wear anything. Think back to the first 6 hours when he first latched in, like the first 6   
     	hours of his life. What was going through your mind in relation to breastfeeding? Were you shocked  
     	by the pain at that point? Like those 6 hours? First 6 hours, was it painful? The first couple of   
     	feedings were not painful.                                                                          
     	                                                                                                    
11:02	But then remember overnight I asked to go out patient consultant because it hurt so bad. I was      
     	already bleeding by nighttime, so like 12 hours late later because I was trying to feed him, I knew 
     	I was supposed to feed him frequently, so I had him on every probably 2 hours. Yeah.                
     	                                                                                                    
11:20	Did you have any idea what the proper form was? He maintaining that form. I thought so, but I mean, 
     	that kidding me. Change your diaper.                                                                
     	                                                                                                    
11:46	But it did. It different when he's on you versus teaching somebody. What was the first moment like? 
     	That was like moments after birth, wasn't it? I don't know.                                         
     	                                                                                                    
12:09	I can give you some fluffy answer that everybody else wants. Nourishing. My baby with my own body.  
     	                                                                                                    
12:24	That's not how I felt. I had a lot of pain. But it wasn't breastfeeding pain.                       
     	                                                                                                    
12:30	No. I was still freaking out. I didn't feel like my baby yet.                                       
     	                                                                                                    
12:35	Just felt like a stranger on my wax. You were iron deficient, right. You were just overall fatigued 
     	right then.                                                                                         
     	                                                                                                    
12:55	What about the experience of the first weekend? Were there moments there where you enjoyed it or was
     	it all just painful? I hated it. Like the first week, it was just terror. Yes, it was.              
     	                                                                                                    
13:28	So I cried every time I had to feed him. But then within the first month, did that level off? After 
     	I got the shield? It was fine as soon as I got the shield, no pain. Right.                          
     	                                                                                                    
13:53	And then did you did it become something that you enjoyed? Yeah, I would say that. Do you look      
     	forward to it? Yeah, I look forward to it now. For sure.                                            
     	                                                                                                    
14:13	Yeah. I love it when it's time to be both are relaxed. Would you say that early on you were         
     	exhausted and then shocked by the surprise of the pain? The pain was unexpected, as you said.       
     	                                                                                                    
14:39	Yeah. And that just added on to the pain of my vagina. Had you ever been told that it was going to  
     	be painful? You'd never been told? All I knew was they said if it hurts, it shouldn't feel pinchy.  
     	                                                                                                    
14:54	It should just feel like a light tugging. That's what I tell my patients. But pain is much more     
     	common.                                                                                             
     	                                                                                                    
15:04	Yeah. Is there a reason they don't tell you it's going to be painful? Is there a strategy behind    
     	that? I think because it's probably because they don't want you to experience pain, have a bad      
     	latch, and think that that's normal. Like, as a rule of thumb, it shouldn't hurt overall.           
     	                                                                                                    
15:33	But nobody really tells you at the beginning that it's a little bit painful. But then she comes in  
     	with, oh, yeah, here's your cooling pad, like she knew it was going to hurt. So you don't think     
     	pretending it's not going to hurt is doing women a disservice? I think they need to know that it's  
     	going to hurt.                                                                                      
     	                                                                                                    
15:50	But at the same time, if it is really painful, just make sure you reevaluate the latch. Make sure   
     	that's not the problem. Right.                                                                      
     	                                                                                                    
15:56	And also because it could be the pain is only temporary. Yeah. If you focus on getting the right    
     	latch, eventually it's going to a lot.                                                              
     	                                                                                                    
16:05	I said, like, how is the painful? Is the pain normal? And it said online, overwhelmingly, pain is   
     	normal until like six weeks. Right. Six days.                                                       
     	                                                                                                    
16:15	Six days. So you weren't well served by not knowing that. No.                                       
     	                                                                                                    
16:24	You were resentful. Did you resent that? Resentful that they didn't help me in the hospital. That   
     	lady was no help whatsoever.                                                                        
     	                                                                                                    
16:33	That one really pissed me off. I was half asleep when she was there, but she was like, oh, it looks 
     	like a pretty good latch. That's what she said, sleep.                                              
     	                                                                                                    
16:40	She's like, oh, I'm not going to wake him if he's asleep. I'm like, But I need you to make sure. I  
     	remember you saying that it wasn't painful and it seemed like a good latch.                         
     	                                                                                                    
16:45	I remember you saying something like that. But she never observed. That was with the lady here.     
     	                                                                                                    
16:45	I remember you telling her that he was in her at the hospital because he was asleep. I woke him up. 
     	Well, no, she never observed it.                                                                    
     	                                                                                                    
17:06	But you had fed him. And I remember you describing it to her, and you were like, I think he's       
     	latching. Okay.                                                                                     
     	                                                                                                    
17:14	Yeah, that's what you told her. I thought so, but then it was starting to get really painful. I     
     	specifically asked her to come in to observe the latch to make sure that it was okay.               
     	                                                                                                    
17:26	And then she's like, oh, he's asleep. I'm like, But I need you to look at the latch. She just threw 
     	the cooling pads at me and left.                                                                    
     	                                                                                                    
17:35	What can we offer our students for? Like, latch like a latch reference? Yeah, there's all kinds     
     	would you have benefited from some of that? I mean, I know all of that, but you are still wanting a 
     	lactation consultant to look at it. Yeah. Again, I didn't know it was painful.                      
     	                                                                                                    
18:01	And it was super painful. Yeah. Do you think Teddy should be a character in your story? Should we   
     	roll him out at the end? Here's Tedman, the baby, who is so such a good breastfeeder.               
     	                                                                                                    
18:26	He's fat. It's absurdly. Obese.                                                                     
     	                                      